This video is a combination of all the parts
from the “All Clone Trooper Types and Variants”
series for easier viewing.
Because we combined 3 parts into one video,
the list numbering will reset every now and
then.
First are the standard clone troopers.
They were the most common troopers in the
clone army.
Because they were bred for war, they served
as excellent soldiers and worked extremely
well with their Jedi allies.
For the first half of the Clone Wars, they
wore standard phase 1 clone armor.
Although this armor provided protection from
the environment and blasters, it was heavy
and uncomfortable.
This lead to the creation of the phase 2 armor,
which was not only lighter and more comfortable,
but it also provided better protection against
blasters.
Standard clone troopers were generally equipped
with the DC-15A blaster rifle or the DC-15S
blaster.
Second are the Clone ordnance specialists,
also known as bomb squad troopers.
They were specialized in bomb disarmament
and disposal.
They wore orange marked armor and were equipped
with explosive sensors, ion probes, and bomb
defusing tools.
Third are the Clone cold assault troopers,
also known as Clone snowtroopers.
They were trained to operate in extremely
cold regions, and they were equipped with
modified armor and equipment that helped them
effectively fight in snow.
Fourth are the clone flame troopers.
They were specialized in the use of BT X-42
heavy flamethrowers as well as other incendiary
weapons.
They wore specialized armor that protected
them from extreme heats.
They were used to clear out large groups of
enemies in enclosed areas.
Fifth are the Clone Lancer Troopers.
They were specialized in speeder bike combat.
They rode special Aratech 105-K lancer bikes
and wielded power lances.
Sixth are clone scout troopers.
They were used in situations that required
fast-paced combat.
Along with their advanced camouflaged armor,
they wore a body glove that covered their
neck, legs, and arms, which allowed them to
move quickly.
Their helmet had a wider visor plate, which
gave them a larger visual area.
Seventh are clone jet troopers, also known
as aerial clone troopers.
They were equipped and trained in the use
of jetpacks.
They were effectively used in ambushing the
enemy from behind and above.
Many of them were equipped with Electromagnetic
pulse launchers.
Eighth are the Clone Shadow Troopers.
They were primary used for reconnaissance.
They wore very expensive armor which allowed
them to alter their physical appearance, being
able to take the appearance of a Hutt Cartel
or Black Sun mercenary.
The armor also reflected scans and could act
as a jamming device.
Ninth are the Galactic Marines.
They were trained to be able to fight in many
different environments, even in space.
They specialized in boarding and capturing
enemy starships as well as planetary assault.
They wore very unique body armor with purple
and white coloration.
Their masks and visors were designed to keep
out various hazards such as snow, sand, and
ash.
Tenth are the Clone Marines, not to be confused
with the Galactic Marines seen previously.
Clone Marines were used for warding off enemy
boarding parties, as well as conducting boarding
parties themselves onto enemy vessels.
They were equipped with jetpacks and armor
that allowed them to stay in space for long
periods of time.
Eleventh are the Clone scuba troopers.
They specialized in underwater combat.
They wore special armor that was lighter than
regular clone armor and was designed to be
effective underwater.
They were outfitted with aquatic propulsion
packs on their backs and fins on their feet
to increase agility underwater.
Their helmets possessed powerful lenses and
sensors to allow them to see through potential
cloudy water.
Their helmets could extract viable oxygen
from the surrounding water, eliminating the
need for oxygen tanks.
Twelfth are the Clone Blaze Troopers.
They wore heavy combat armor that was equipped
with a jet pack.
They were equipped with various weapons, including
flamethrowers and miniguns.
They were used for busting through enemy lines
and clearing a path for incoming friendly
infantry.
Thirteenth are the Clone paratoopers, also
known as clone airborne troopers.
They were specialized in dropping into battles
from high altitudes.
They wore a special helmet and were equipped
with a parachute when dropping into battle.
Fourteenth are the High Orbit Precision Entry
troopers.
They were clone commandos who were launched
from orbit in one-man escape pods.
These escape pods would split open when reaching
the target and allow the trooper to descend
to their target.
Fifteenth are the Clone heavy Gunners.
They were trained to use some of the most
powerful weapons and explosives in the military’s
arsenal.
These included missiles, grenades, and demolition
charges.
They were usually equipped with a massive
blaster cannon.
Sixteenth are the Clone Heavy Troopers.
They were commandos that were specialized
in the use of heavy weapons, like the PLX-1
portable missile launcher.
They were used for anti-vehicle and anti-armor
duties.
Seventeenth are the Covert Ops clone troopers.
They were used to hunt down and kill clones
who deserted the clone army.
Last for part 1 are the Blurrg Troopers.
They rode on top of Blurrgs and used them
to mow down enemies.
Blurrg troopers were usually equipped with
a flamethrower.
First are the Advanced Recon Commandos, also
known as ARC troopers.
They were far more independent and physically
superior than regular clones.
Many Commandos got direct training under Jango
Fett himself before he died.
They wore lighter but stronger armor than
regular clones, and they usually also wore
a pauldron and kama.
There were two different classes of ARC troopers,
The Null-class and Alpha-class.
The Null-class commandos were the first batch
of clones ever created.
Because of this, they were somewhat unstable
and violent.
They were supposed to be terminated, but were
saved by Kal Skirata, a another Mandalorian
trainer, who not only personally trained these
clones, but also later adopted them.
The Alpha-class was the successful batch of
ARC trooper clones, as they were stable and
obedient.
They were very independent thinkers, and would
argue against Jedi orders that they saw as
incompetent.
Many of them even disobeyed order 66, questioning
the legitimacy of Palpatine’s claim of Jedi
being traitors.
Along with the classes, there were different
variations of ARC troopers.
These included the Advanced Recon Commando
heavy gunners, who used high rapid-firing
weapons like the Reciprocating quad blaster
and the Z-6 rotary blaster cannon.
The Biker Advanced Recon Troopers, who were
deployed on BARC speeders during combat.
And the advanced recon force troopers, who
carried out short-range reconnaissance.
Second are the Clone Commandos, also known
as Republic Commandos.
Not to be confused with the Advanced Recon
Commandos seen previously.
Clone Commandos worked as a special forces
unit, and they were each trained by Mandalorian
instructors.
They were often referred to as being the army’s
deadliest soldiers, and they were sent on
missions that included: covert infiltration,
sabotage, demolition, and assassination.
They differed from the ARC troopers by wearing
stronger and more advanced armor, and they
were more obedient as well.
There was a variation of the Clone Commando,
called the Felucian Commando.
They were specialized to operate on Jungle
planets like Fulcia, and they wore camouflaged
commando armor.
Third are the clone riot troopers.
They were specialized in riot control and
policing.
They were armed with riot shields and stun
batons.
Fourth are the Clone assassins.
They were specifically trained to combat and
kill Jedi.
The argument for having these clones in the
army was to use them as a security measure
for if the Jedi ever rebelled against the
Republic.
Clone assassins wore modified armor that allowed
them to perform very agile physical attacks.
The armor had two twin vibro-blades attached
to the elbows, which they used to effectively
combat Jedi.
Fifth are the Clone engineers, also known
as clone combat engineers.
They were used to repair vehicles and to perform
demolitions.
They were usually equipped with bacta and
ammunition dispensers, F-187 fusion cutters,
and shotguns.
Sixth are the Clone Snipers, also known as
clone sharp shooters.
They were specialized as snipers and were
used to thin out the enemy infantry from a
distance before the main ally force engaged
them.
They wore light armor and were equipped with
a snipers.
Seventh are the Special ops clone troopers.
They were used for stealth missions.
They wore a special helmet that enhanced their
hearing and allowed them to pick up vibrations
from the far.
Their armor was also colored dark for camouflage.
There is another version of this trooper called
Stealth Operations Clone troopers.
They were used to operate the stealth chip
during the battle Battle of Christophsis.
They wore slightly lighter colored armor and
they had a different symbol on their shoulder
pad.
Eighth are Stealth pilots.
They were used to pilot the stealth ship during
the Battle of Christophsis, and they wore
unique clone pilot armor.
Ninth are the Clone trooper Medics.
They were used to treat injured clones during
battle.
They wore backpacks that contained necessary
medical equipment needed to save clones from
dying.
There were also Clone Medical Officers.
They were used on Republic hospital stations
and treated more serious injuries, and they
had access to more advanced medical equipment
due to where they were stationed.
Tenth are the Clone Naval officers, also known
as clone navigators.
They were specifically trained in technical
and tactical aspects of naval command.
They mostly served as aides for regular Human
officers and admirals.
Eleventh are the AT-RT drivers.
They were specialized in piloting AT-RT walkers.
They wore a special helmet that featured a
boosted-range comlink for when they were away
from their walkers.
They usually carried a circular lifeform scanner
on their chest, which helped them find friendly
hostages during battle.
Last for part 2 are the AT-TE commanders.
They were trained in operating AT-TE walkers
and other armored vehicles.
First are the clone shock troopers.
They were the special forces of the Coruscant
Guard and served primarily as a police force
for Republic Government buildings and prisons.
They also acted as bodyguards for politicians
in some cases.
They wore distinctive red clone armor.
There was also a variant of the clone shock
troopers, which wore armor similar to the
AT-RT troopers.
They used Massifs to track down prisoners
who escaped.
Second are the clone trooper pilots.
They were trained to pilot starfighters and
gunships, as well as to repair vehicles when
needed.
They wore special clone armor that supplied
oxygen to their helmets.
In the later years of the Clone Wars, they
wore a unique helmet that was not fully enclosed.
Third are the clone tank gunners.
They were trained to operate cannons and guns
on tanks, warships, and artillery cannons.
They wore regular clone armor that was outfitted
with additional armor padding on their chest
and shoulder plates.
Fourth are the clone trooper commanders.
They were high ranked clone officers that
lead entire battalions or regiments, which
included 576 or 2,304 other clones respectively.
Clone commanders generally stayed in the back
of battles and commanded their troops from
the command centers, only getting involved
in combat when the situation required it.
Initially clone commanders were recognizable
by their yellow markings, but this was later
changed when clone commanders were assigned
to specific clone divisions.
Fifth are the clone trooper captains.
As high ranking officers, they lead entire
clone companies, which included 144 other
clones.
They acted as diverse leaders and fought with
their men in the front lines.
Initially clone captains were recognizable
by their red markings, but this was later
changed when clone captains were assigned
to specific clone divisions.
Sixth are the clone trooper lieutenants.
They lead entire platoons, which included
36 other clones.
As was the same with the other two ranks previously,
clone lieutenants initially were recognizable
by their blue markings, but this was later
changed when clone lieutenants were assigned
to specific clone divisions.
Seventh are the clone trooper sergeants.
They commanded squads, which included 9 other
clones.
They initially were recognizable by their
olive green markings, but this was later changed
when clone sergeants were assigned to specific
clone divisions.
Eighth are the Clone cadets.
These were clones who were still in combat
training on Kamino.
They underwent rigorous training and were
tested by their performance in the battlefield
simulation rooms.
They wore padded clone armor that included
a clear helmet visor.
Ninth are the clone advisors.
They served as advisors to clone commando
squads, by informing squads about their missions,
status, and objectives.
Tenth are the Clone Stormtroopers.
They were the first generation of stormtroopers.
They initially wore their phase 2 armor, but
it was later replaced with the standard Stormtrooper
armor.
Clone stormtroopers were eventually mostly
replaced by regular human stormtroopers.
Last are the Anti-troopers.
They were specifically bred by the Kaminoans
as a private army that they could use to rebel
against the Galactic Empire.
They wore phase 1 clone armor and were equipped
with jetpacks.
They were also trained as expert snipers.